[Edit] SQL: DATEDIFF() (#6822)
Codecademy/docs: content/sql/concepts/dates/terms/datediff/datediff.md

```

The output of this code will be:

| OrderID | OrderDate           | ShipDate            | DeliveryDate        | ProcessingHours | ShippingDays | TotalDays | ShipmentStatus |
| ------- | ------------------- | ------------------- | ------------------- | --------------- | ------------ | --------- | -------------- |
| 1001    | 2023-01-10 09:30:00 | 2023-01-11 14:15:00 | 2023-01-15 11:20:00 | 29              | 4            | 5         | Delayed        |
| 1002    | 2023-01-12 13:45:00 | 2023-01-13 10:30:00 | 2023-01-14 16:45:00 | 21              | 1            | 2         | On Time        |
| 1003    | 2023-01-15 11:20:00 | 2023-01-18 09:45:00 | 2023-01-22 13:10:00 | 70              | 4            | 7         | Delayed        |
| 1004    | 2023-01-16 14:55:00 | 2023-01-17 16:30:00 | 2023-01-21 09:30:00 | 26              | 4            | 5         | Delayed        |

This example demonstrates how `DATEDIFF()` can be used to calculate important business metrics for order processing. The query calculates the processing time in hours, shipping time in days, and total handling time in days. It also identifies delayed shipments based on processing times exceeding 24 hours.

> ## Frequently Asked Questions
> 
> ### 1. How to calculate date difference between two dates in SQL?
> 
> In SQL Server, use the `DATEDIFF()` function with an appropriate interval parameter like day, month, or year. For example, `DATEDIFF(day, '2023-01-01', '2023-01-15')` will return 14 days.
> 
> ### 2. Does `DATEDIFF()` include both the start and end dates in its calculation?
> 
> `DATEDIFF()` counts the number of interval boundaries crossed between the two dates. For example, when using 'day', it counts the number of midnight boundaries crossed, not the full 24-hour periods.
> 
> ### 3. Why does `DATEDIFF(year, '2022-12-31', '2023-01-01')` return 1 even though it's just one day apart?
> 
> Because `DATEDIFF()` counts calendar boundaries, not complete intervals. Since the dates span across a year boundary, it returns 1 year, even though the difference is only one day.
> 
> ### 4. Does `DATEDIFF()` take time zones into account?
> 
> No, SQL Server's `DATEDIFF()` does not account for time zones or daylight saving time transitions. All calculations are done in the server's local time zone.
> 
> ### 5. Can I use `DATEDIFF()` with time-only values?
> 
> Yes, you can use time data types with `DATEDIFF()`, but only with time-related intervals like second, minute, and hour. Using day or larger intervals with time-only values will always return 0.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Frequently Asked Questions

### 1. How to calculate the date difference between two dates in SQL?

In SQL Server, use the `DATEDIFF()` function with an appropriate interval parameter like day, month, or year. For example, `DATEDIFF(day, '2023-01-01', '2023-01-15')` will return 14 days.

### 2. Does `DATEDIFF()` include both the start and end dates in its calculation?

The `DATEDIFF()` function counts the number of interval boundaries crossed between the two dates. For example, when using 'day', it counts the number of midnight boundaries crossed, not the full 24-hour periods.

### 3. Why does `DATEDIFF(year, '2022-12-31', '2023-01-01')` return 1 even though it's just one day apart?

Because `DATEDIFF()` counts calendar boundaries, not complete intervals. Since the dates span across a year boundary, it returns 1 year, even though the difference is only one day.

### 4. Does `DATEDIFF()` take time zones into account?

No, SQL Server's `DATEDIFF()` does not account for time zones or daylight saving time transitions. All calculations are done in the server's local time zone.

### 5. Can I use `DATEDIFF()` with time-only values?

Yes, you can use time data types with `DATEDIFF()`, but only with time-related intervals like seconds, minutes, and hours. Using day or larger intervals with time-only values will always return 0.
```
